README.md, before:

# Interview Prep

Welcome to Interview Questions, a repository of commonly asked interview questions for various industries and job
functions. Whether you're preparing for a job interview or looking to improve your skills, our repository provides a
comprehensive set of questions to help you succeed.

### How to contribute?

1.First of all star ⭐ the Repo and follow my github [Diwakar Singh](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar).

2. Fork the repository.
3. Create a new branch for your contribution.
4. Make your changes and test them locally.
5. Push your changes to your fork.
6. Open a pull request (PR) with a clear description of your changes and their purpose.

## Topics

Our repository covers the following topics:

- [C CPP](#c-cpp)
- [Coding Interview Questions](#coding-interview-questions)
- [Database Management Interview Questions](#database-management-interview-questions)
- [Git & GitHub](#git--github)
- [Java Interview Questions](#java-interview-questions)
- [JavaScript Interview Questions](#javascript-interview-questions)
- [Networking Interview Questions](#networking-interview-questions)
- [Operating System](#operating-system)
- [Python](#python)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Web Development](#web-development)
- [React Interview Questions](#react-interview-questions)
- [Common Job Interview Questions](#common-job-interview-questions)

You can suggest some more topics to be covered

Each topic includes a set of questions to help you prepare for your interview. We've curated these questions to cover a
wide range of scenarios and job functions, and we've included answers to help guide your preparation.

## C CPP

1.[What is pragma in C](./c.md/1.md)

2.[Go to statement in C](./c.md/2.md)

3.[What is the difference between "++i" and "i++" in C programming?](./c.md/3.md)

4.[What is the use of "const" keyword in C programming?](./c.md/4.md)

5.[What is the difference between "strcmp" and "strncmp" functions in C programming?](./c.md/5.md)

6.[Explain the difference between "malloc" and "calloc" functions in C programming.](./c.md/6.md)

7.[What is an STL in C++?](./c.md/7.md)

8.[What is a virtual function in C++? Why is it important?](./c.md/8.md)

9.[what is 'this' pointer in C++?](./c.md/9.md)

10.[What are references in C++?](./c.md/10.md)

11.[How is the assignment operator ( = ) different from the equal to operator ( == )?](./c.md/11.md)

12.[Define Priority Queue](./c.md/12.md)

### Coding Interview Questions

1.[What is the difference between a stack and a queue?](./coding.md/1.md#what-is-the-difference-between-a-stack-and-a-queue)

2.[What is LIFO?](./coding.md/2.md)

3.[What is FIFO?](./coding.md/3.md)

4.[What is a sparse matrix? Explain an efficient way of storing a sparse matrix in memory?](./coding.md/4.md)

5.[What is an integer array?](./coding.md/5.md)

6.[What is a Deque?](./coding.md/6.md)

7.[What is a Recursion?](./coding.md/7.md)

8.[WHat is a Graph?](./coding.md/8.md)

9.[What is the difference between an interpreter and a compiler?](./coding.md/9.md)

10.[What is Data abstraction?](./coding.md/10.md)

11.[Difference between Linear and Non-Linear Data Structure](./coding.md/11.md)

12.[Why we prefer Linked List over array?](./coding.md/12.md)

13.[How can you append texts to files in programming languages such as Java?](./coding.md/13.md)

14.[What are the different OOPS principles?](./coding.md/14.md)

### DataBase Management Interview Questions

1.[What is DBMS and what is its utility?Explain RDBMS with examples.](./dbms.md/ques1.md#What-is-DBMS-and-what-is-its-utility-Explain-RDBMS-with-examples)

2.[Mention the issues with traditional file-based systems that make DBMS a better choice?.](./dbms.md/ques2.md#Mention-the-issues-with-traditional-file-based-systems-that-make-DBMS-a-better-choice)

3.[Explain different languages present in DBMS?.](./dbms.md/ques3.md#Explain-different-languages-present-in-DBMS.)

4.[What is meant by ACID Properties in DBMS?](./dbms.md/ques4.md)

5.[Are NULL values in a database the same as that of blank space or zero?](./dbms.md/ques5.md)

6.[What is Data Warehousing?](./dbms.md/ques6.md)

7.[Explain the difference between the DELETE and TRUNCATE command in a DBMS.](./dbms.md/ques7.md)

8.[When does checkpoint occur in DBMS?](./dbms.md/ques8.md)

9.[What are the unary operations in Relational Algebra?](./dbms.md/ques9.md)

10.[What is a degree of Relation?](./dbms.md/ques10.md)

11.[What is sharding?](./dbms.md/ques11.md)

12.[Difference between vertical and horizontal scaling?](./dbms.md/ques12.md)

13.[What is indexing in dbms?](./dbms.md/ques13.md)

14.[What is normalization, and why is it important in database design?](./dbms.md/ques14.md)

## Git & GitHub

1.[What’s the difference between Git and GitHub?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/Git%20vs%20Github.md)

2.[What do you understand by the term ‘Version Control System’?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/Version%20Control%20System.md)

3.[What is a git repository?](./git.md/3.md)

4.[What does git clone do?](./git.md/4.md)

5.[What does git status command do?](./git.md/5.md)

6.[Define 'Git Index'?](./git.md/6.md)

7.[What is Git Bash?](./git.md/7.md)

8.[What is forking in Git?](./git.md/8.md)

9.[What is origin in Git?](./git.md/9.md)

10.[What is the difference between ‘git remote’ and ‘git clone’?](./git.md/10.md)

11.[What does the command git config do?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/gitconfig.md)

12.[What is Git Conflict?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/gitconflict.md)

### Networking Interview Questions

1.[What do you mean by Network Topology and explain types of them?](./networking.md/1.md#What-do-you-mean-by-Network-Topology-and-explain-types-of-them-?)

2.[What is the use of a router and how is it different from a gateway?](./networking.md/2.md)

3.[Why do we require IP address when we can identify a device by its MAC address in a network?](./networking.md/3.md)

### Operating system

1.[What is the main Purpose of Operating sysetm? Discuss different types?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques1.md#What-is-the-main-Purpose-of-operating-system-?-Discuss-different-types-?)

2.[Banker's Algorithm](./operatingSystem.md/Ques2.md#Banker's-Algorithm)

3.[What is a socket, kernel and Monolithic kernel?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques3.md#What-is-a-socket,-kernel-and-Monolithic-kernel-?)

4.[Difference between process and program and thread? Different types of process.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques4.md)

5.[Define Virtual memory, Thrashing, Threads.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques5.md)

6.[what is deadlock? different conditions to achieve a deadlock.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques6.md)

7.[What is Fragmentation? Types of Fragmentation.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques7.md)

8.[Belady's Anomaly](./operatingSystem.md/Ques8.md)

9.[Real Time Operating System, Types of RTOS?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques9.md)

10.[Dynamic Binding](./operatingSystem.md/Ques10.md)

11.[Explain the Process States and Lifecycle](./operatingSystem.md/Ques11.md)

12.[FCFS Scheduling Algorithm](./operatingSystem.md/Ques12.md)

13.[What is paging and why do we it?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques13.md)

14.[Difference between Primary and Secondary memory](./operatingSystem.md/Ques14.md)

15.[What is RAID structure in OS? What are the different levels of RAID configuration?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques15.md)

16.[Write top 10 examples of OS?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques16.md)

### Software Engineering

1.[What are bitmap images?](./softwareEngineering.md/ques1.md#What-are-bitmap-images)

2.[What are the various categories of software?](./softwareEngineering.md/ques2.md)

3.[What do you mean by Alpha testing and beta testing?](./softwareEngineering.md/ques3.md)

## Python

1.[What is a dynamically typed language?](./python.md/ques1.md)

2.[What is Walrus Operator in Python?](./python.md/ques2.md)

3.[Explain the concept of recursion?](./python.md/ques3.md)

4.[Describe the strings used in python](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/python.md/strings%20in%20python.md)

5.[What is Walrus Operator in Python](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/python.md/walrus%20operator%20in%20python.md)

### Web Development

1.[What is Hydration](./web.md/ques1.md)

2.[State the difference between span tag and div tag in HTML5.](./web.md/ques2.md)

3.[Describe the different kinds of HTTP requests supported by RESTful Web services](./web.md/ques3.md)

4.[What is the best way to integrate different stylesheets into a website?](./web.md/ques4.md)

5.[Explain the term “Scope” in JavaScript and write its different type.](./web.md/ques5.md)

6.[What are pseudo-classes?](./web.md/ques6.md)

7.[What are some of the types of CSS that are used?](./web.md/ques7.md)

8.[What are the five elements that support media content in HTML5?](./web.md/ques8.md)

9.[What is the purpose of closures in JavaScript?](./web.md/ques9.md)

10.[Why are media queries used in CSS?](./web.md/ques10.md)

11.[What are the differences between JSON and XML?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/web.md/differences%20between%20JSON%20and%20XML%3F.md)


### JavaScript Interview Questions

1.[Explain Hoisting in javascript?](./js.md/1.md)

2.[What are the different data types present in javascript?](./js.md/2.md)

3.[What is DOM?](./js.md/3.md)

4.[Difference between var and let keyword in javascript.](./js.md/4.md)

5.[Difference between Event Handler and Event listener?](./js.md/5.md)

6.[Explain different types of Event in javaScript?](./js.md/6.md)

7.[Difference between "==" and "===" in javascript.](./js.md/7.md)

### Java Interview Questions

1.[what is jagged Array in java ? ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/jagged%20array.md)

2.[Define wrapper class in java with example? ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Wrapper%20Class.md)

3.[Why Java is not a purely Object-Oriented Language? ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Why%20Java%20is%20not%20a%20purely%20Object-Oriented%20Language.md)

4.[Exception Handling in Java?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Exception%20Handling.md)

5.[Static keyword in Java](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Static%20Keyword.md)

6.[What is the difference between JDK and JRE?](./java.md/6.md)

7.[Why is Java a platform independent language?](./java.md/7.md)

8.[What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface?](./java.md/8.md)

9.[What is the difference between final, finally, and finalize?](./java.md/9.md)

10.[Why String is immutable in Java?](./java.md/10.md)

11.[What will be the initial value of an object reference which is defined as an instance variable?](./java.md/11.md)

12.[Does constructor return any value?](./java.md/12.md)

13.[Is constructor inherited?](./java.md/13.md)

14.[Can you make a constructor final?](./java.md/14.md)

15.[Can we overload the constructors?](./java.md/15.md)

16.[What are the various access specifiers in Java?](./java.md/16.md)

17.[What are the advantages of Packages in Java?](./java.md/17.md)

18.[What is an object?](./java.md/18.md)

19.[What will be the initial value of an object reference which is defined as an instance variable?](./java.md/19.md)

20.[Why is the main method static?](./java.md/20.md)

## React Interview Questions

1.[What is React?](./react.md/1.md)

2.[Why should I use React?](./react.md/2.md)

3.[How to get started with React](./react.md/3.md)

4.[What are React components?](./react.md/4.md)

5.[How to create a React component](./react.md/5.md)

6.[How to render a React component](./react.md/6.md)

7.[What is JSX?](./react.md/7.md)

8.[What is State in React?](./react.md/8.md)

9 .[Class Component Vs. Functional Component](./react.md/9.md)


## Common Job Interview Questions

1.Tell me about yourself

2.What is your greatest strength?

3.What is your greatest weakness?

4.Why should we hire you?

5.Why do you want to work here?

6.Tell me about a time you showed leadership.

7.Tell me about a time you were successful on a team.

8.What would your co-workers say about you?

9.Why do you want to leave your current role?

10.Describe your most challenging project.

11.Tell me about something you’ve accomplished that you are proud of.

12.Can you explain your employment gap?

13.What are your salary expectations?

14.What do you like to do outside of work?

15.Tell me about a time you had to manage conflicting priorities.

16.Where do you see yourself in 5 years?

17.Describe your leadership style.

18.Tell me about a time you failed or made a mistake.

19.Tell me about a time you worked with a difficult person.

20.Tell me about a time you had to persuade someone.

21.Tell me about a time you disagreed with someone.

22.Tell me about a time you created a goal and achieved it.

23.Tell me about a time you surpassed people’s expectations.

24.Tell me about a time you had to handle pressure.

25.Tell me about a time you had to learn something quickly.

26.Describe your ideal company, location and job?

27.Do you have any questions for me?

## Contributing

We believe that the best resources are the ones that are created collaboratively. That's why we invite you to contribute
your own interview questions and insights to our repository. To do so, simply fork this repository, add your questions,
and submit a pull request. We'll review your contribution and merge it if it meets our standards.

## Feedback

We are always looking for ways to improve our repository and make it more useful for job seekers around the world. If
you have any feedback or suggestions, please don't hesitate to open an issue or reach out to us directly.

We hope that this repository helps you feel more confident and prepared as you navigate the job search process. Good
luck with your interviews!

## Project Contributors⭐

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development" />
</a>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

# Owners of this Repository

This repository is owned and maintained by [Diwakar ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar)
and [Sahil](https://github.com/Sahilz9).

Commit message:

added react js ques + updated README.md

README.md, after:

# Interview Prep

Welcome to Interview Questions, a repository of commonly asked interview questions for various industries and job
functions. Whether you're preparing for a job interview or looking to improve your skills, our repository provides a
comprehensive set of questions to help you succeed.

### How to contribute?

1.First of all star ⭐ the Repo and follow my github [Diwakar Singh](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar).

2. Fork the repository.
3. Create a new branch for your contribution.
4. Make your changes and test them locally.
5. Push your changes to your fork.
6. Open a pull request (PR) with a clear description of your changes and their purpose.

## Topics

Our repository covers the following topics:

- [C CPP](#c-cpp)
- [Coding Interview Questions](#coding-interview-questions)
- [Database Management Interview Questions](#database-management-interview-questions)
- [Git & GitHub](#git--github)
- [Java Interview Questions](#java-interview-questions)
- [JavaScript Interview Questions](#javascript-interview-questions)
- [Networking Interview Questions](#networking-interview-questions)
- [Operating System](#operating-system)
- [Python](#python)
- [Software Engineering](#software-engineering)
- [Web Development](#web-development)
- [React Interview Questions](#react-interview-questions)
- [Common Job Interview Questions](#common-job-interview-questions)

You can suggest some more topics to be covered

Each topic includes a set of questions to help you prepare for your interview. We've curated these questions to cover a
wide range of scenarios and job functions, and we've included answers to help guide your preparation.

## C CPP

1.[What is pragma in C](./c.md/1.md)

2.[Go to statement in C](./c.md/2.md)

3.[What is the difference between "++i" and "i++" in C programming?](./c.md/3.md)

4.[What is the use of "const" keyword in C programming?](./c.md/4.md)

5.[What is the difference between "strcmp" and "strncmp" functions in C programming?](./c.md/5.md)

6.[Explain the difference between "malloc" and "calloc" functions in C programming.](./c.md/6.md)

7.[What is an STL in C++?](./c.md/7.md)

8.[What is a virtual function in C++? Why is it important?](./c.md/8.md)

9.[what is 'this' pointer in C++?](./c.md/9.md)

10.[What are references in C++?](./c.md/10.md)

11.[How is the assignment operator ( = ) different from the equal to operator ( == )?](./c.md/11.md)

12.[Define Priority Queue](./c.md/12.md)

### Coding Interview Questions

1.[What is the difference between a stack and a queue?](./coding.md/1.md#what-is-the-difference-between-a-stack-and-a-queue)

2.[What is LIFO?](./coding.md/2.md)

3.[What is FIFO?](./coding.md/3.md)

4.[What is a sparse matrix? Explain an efficient way of storing a sparse matrix in memory?](./coding.md/4.md)

5.[What is an integer array?](./coding.md/5.md)

6.[What is a Deque?](./coding.md/6.md)

7.[What is a Recursion?](./coding.md/7.md)

8.[WHat is a Graph?](./coding.md/8.md)

9.[What is the difference between an interpreter and a compiler?](./coding.md/9.md)

10.[What is Data abstraction?](./coding.md/10.md)

11.[Difference between Linear and Non-Linear Data Structure](./coding.md/11.md)

12.[Why we prefer Linked List over array?](./coding.md/12.md)

13.[How can you append texts to files in programming languages such as Java?](./coding.md/13.md)

14.[What are the different OOPS principles?](./coding.md/14.md)

### DataBase Management Interview Questions

1.[What is DBMS and what is its utility?Explain RDBMS with examples.](./dbms.md/ques1.md#What-is-DBMS-and-what-is-its-utility-Explain-RDBMS-with-examples)

2.[Mention the issues with traditional file-based systems that make DBMS a better choice?.](./dbms.md/ques2.md#Mention-the-issues-with-traditional-file-based-systems-that-make-DBMS-a-better-choice)

3.[Explain different languages present in DBMS?.](./dbms.md/ques3.md#Explain-different-languages-present-in-DBMS.)

4.[What is meant by ACID Properties in DBMS?](./dbms.md/ques4.md)

5.[Are NULL values in a database the same as that of blank space or zero?](./dbms.md/ques5.md)

6.[What is Data Warehousing?](./dbms.md/ques6.md)

7.[Explain the difference between the DELETE and TRUNCATE command in a DBMS.](./dbms.md/ques7.md)

8.[When does checkpoint occur in DBMS?](./dbms.md/ques8.md)

9.[What are the unary operations in Relational Algebra?](./dbms.md/ques9.md)

10.[What is a degree of Relation?](./dbms.md/ques10.md)

11.[What is sharding?](./dbms.md/ques11.md)

12.[Difference between vertical and horizontal scaling?](./dbms.md/ques12.md)

13.[What is indexing in dbms?](./dbms.md/ques13.md)

14.[What is normalization, and why is it important in database design?](./dbms.md/ques14.md)

## Git & GitHub

1.[What’s the difference between Git and GitHub?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/Git%20vs%20Github.md)

2.[What do you understand by the term ‘Version Control System’?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/Version%20Control%20System.md)

3.[What is a git repository?](./git.md/3.md)

4.[What does git clone do?](./git.md/4.md)

5.[What does git status command do?](./git.md/5.md)

6.[Define 'Git Index'?](./git.md/6.md)

7.[What is Git Bash?](./git.md/7.md)

8.[What is forking in Git?](./git.md/8.md)

9.[What is origin in Git?](./git.md/9.md)

10.[What is the difference between ‘git remote’ and ‘git clone’?](./git.md/10.md)

11.[What does the command git config do?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/gitconfig.md)

12.[What is Git Conflict?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/git.md/gitconflict.md)

### Networking Interview Questions

1.[What do you mean by Network Topology and explain types of them?](./networking.md/1.md#What-do-you-mean-by-Network-Topology-and-explain-types-of-them-?)

2.[What is the use of a router and how is it different from a gateway?](./networking.md/2.md)

3.[Why do we require IP address when we can identify a device by its MAC address in a network?](./networking.md/3.md)

### Operating system

1.[What is the main Purpose of Operating sysetm? Discuss different types?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques1.md#What-is-the-main-Purpose-of-operating-system-?-Discuss-different-types-?)

2.[Banker's Algorithm](./operatingSystem.md/Ques2.md#Banker's-Algorithm)

3.[What is a socket, kernel and Monolithic kernel?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques3.md#What-is-a-socket,-kernel-and-Monolithic-kernel-?)

4.[Difference between process and program and thread? Different types of process.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques4.md)

5.[Define Virtual memory, Thrashing, Threads.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques5.md)

6.[what is deadlock? different conditions to achieve a deadlock.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques6.md)

7.[What is Fragmentation? Types of Fragmentation.](./operatingSystem.md/Ques7.md)

8.[Belady's Anomaly](./operatingSystem.md/Ques8.md)

9.[Real Time Operating System, Types of RTOS?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques9.md)

10.[Dynamic Binding](./operatingSystem.md/Ques10.md)

11.[Explain the Process States and Lifecycle](./operatingSystem.md/Ques11.md)

12.[FCFS Scheduling Algorithm](./operatingSystem.md/Ques12.md)

13.[What is paging and why do we it?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques13.md)

14.[Difference between Primary and Secondary memory](./operatingSystem.md/Ques14.md)

15.[What is RAID structure in OS? What are the different levels of RAID configuration?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques15.md)

16.[Write top 10 examples of OS?](./operatingSystem.md/Ques16.md)

### Software Engineering

1.[What are bitmap images?](./softwareEngineering.md/ques1.md#What-are-bitmap-images)

2.[What are the various categories of software?](./softwareEngineering.md/ques2.md)

3.[What do you mean by Alpha testing and beta testing?](./softwareEngineering.md/ques3.md)

## Python

1.[What is a dynamically typed language?](./python.md/ques1.md)

2.[What is Walrus Operator in Python?](./python.md/ques2.md)

3.[Explain the concept of recursion?](./python.md/ques3.md)

4.[Describe the strings used in python](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/python.md/strings%20in%20python.md)

5.[What is Walrus Operator in Python](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/python.md/walrus%20operator%20in%20python.md)

### Web Development

1.[What is Hydration](./web.md/ques1.md)

2.[State the difference between span tag and div tag in HTML5.](./web.md/ques2.md)

3.[Describe the different kinds of HTTP requests supported by RESTful Web services](./web.md/ques3.md)

4.[What is the best way to integrate different stylesheets into a website?](./web.md/ques4.md)

5.[Explain the term “Scope” in JavaScript and write its different type.](./web.md/ques5.md)

6.[What are pseudo-classes?](./web.md/ques6.md)

7.[What are some of the types of CSS that are used?](./web.md/ques7.md)

8.[What are the five elements that support media content in HTML5?](./web.md/ques8.md)

9.[What is the purpose of closures in JavaScript?](./web.md/ques9.md)

10.[Why are media queries used in CSS?](./web.md/ques10.md)

11.[What are the differences between JSON and XML?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/web.md/differences%20between%20JSON%20and%20XML%3F.md)


### JavaScript Interview Questions

1.[Explain Hoisting in javascript?](./js.md/1.md)

2.[What are the different data types present in javascript?](./js.md/2.md)

3.[What is DOM?](./js.md/3.md)

4.[Difference between var and let keyword in javascript.](./js.md/4.md)

5.[Difference between Event Handler and Event listener?](./js.md/5.md)

6.[Explain different types of Event in javaScript?](./js.md/6.md)

7.[Difference between "==" and "===" in javascript.](./js.md/7.md)

### Java Interview Questions

1.[what is jagged Array in java ? ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/jagged%20array.md)

2.[Define wrapper class in java with example? ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Wrapper%20Class.md)

3.[Why Java is not a purely Object-Oriented Language? ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Why%20Java%20is%20not%20a%20purely%20Object-Oriented%20Language.md)

4.[Exception Handling in Java?](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Exception%20Handling.md)

5.[Static keyword in Java](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/blob/main/java.md/Static%20Keyword.md)

6.[What is the difference between JDK and JRE?](./java.md/6.md)

7.[Why is Java a platform independent language?](./java.md/7.md)

8.[What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface?](./java.md/8.md)

9.[What is the difference between final, finally, and finalize?](./java.md/9.md)

10.[Why String is immutable in Java?](./java.md/10.md)

11.[What will be the initial value of an object reference which is defined as an instance variable?](./java.md/11.md)

12.[Does constructor return any value?](./java.md/12.md)

13.[Is constructor inherited?](./java.md/13.md)

14.[Can you make a constructor final?](./java.md/14.md)

15.[Can we overload the constructors?](./java.md/15.md)

16.[What are the various access specifiers in Java?](./java.md/16.md)

17.[What are the advantages of Packages in Java?](./java.md/17.md)

18.[What is an object?](./java.md/18.md)

19.[What will be the initial value of an object reference which is defined as an instance variable?](./java.md/19.md)

20.[Why is the main method static?](./java.md/20.md)

## React Interview Questions

1.[What is React?](./react.md/1.md)

2.[Why should I use React?](./react.md/2.md)

3.[How to get started with React](./react.md/3.md)

4.[What are React components?](./react.md/4.md)

5.[How to create a React component](./react.md/5.md)

6.[How to render a React component](./react.md/6.md)

7.[What is JSX?](./react.md/7.md)

8.[What is State in React?](./react.md/8.md)

9.[Class Component Vs. Functional Component](./react.md/9.md)

10.[Which is faster virtual DOM or Real DOM in React JS?](./react.md/10.md)

11.[Which consumes more memory virtual DOM or Real DOM?](./react.md/11.md)

## Common Job Interview Questions

1.Tell me about yourself

2.What is your greatest strength?

3.What is your greatest weakness?

4.Why should we hire you?

5.Why do you want to work here?

6.Tell me about a time you showed leadership.

7.Tell me about a time you were successful on a team.

8.What would your co-workers say about you?

9.Why do you want to leave your current role?

10.Describe your most challenging project.

11.Tell me about something you’ve accomplished that you are proud of.

12.Can you explain your employment gap?

13.What are your salary expectations?

14.What do you like to do outside of work?

15.Tell me about a time you had to manage conflicting priorities.

16.Where do you see yourself in 5 years?

17.Describe your leadership style.

18.Tell me about a time you failed or made a mistake.

19.Tell me about a time you worked with a difficult person.

20.Tell me about a time you had to persuade someone.

21.Tell me about a time you disagreed with someone.

22.Tell me about a time you created a goal and achieved it.

23.Tell me about a time you surpassed people’s expectations.

24.Tell me about a time you had to handle pressure.

25.Tell me about a time you had to learn something quickly.

26.Describe your ideal company, location and job?

27.Do you have any questions for me?

## Contributing

We believe that the best resources are the ones that are created collaboratively. That's why we invite you to contribute
your own interview questions and insights to our repository. To do so, simply fork this repository, add your questions,
and submit a pull request. We'll review your contribution and merge it if it meets our standards.

## Feedback

We are always looking for ways to improve our repository and make it more useful for job seekers around the world. If
you have any feedback or suggestions, please don't hesitate to open an issue or reach out to us directly.

We hope that this repository helps you feel more confident and prepared as you navigate the job search process. Good
luck with your interviews!

## Project Contributors⭐

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="https://github.com/thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=thakurdiwakar/Interview-Skills-Development" />
</a>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

# Owners of this Repository

This repository is owned and maintained by [Diwakar ](https://github.com/thakurdiwakar)
and [Sahil](https://github.com/Sahilz9).
