# What is DOM?

The Document Object Model (DOM) is a cross-platform and language-neutral interface that allows programs and scripts to dynamically access and update the content, structure, and style of a document. The DOM represents a document as a tree of objects, with each object representing a part of the document.

In JavaScript, the DOM can be accessed using the document object. The document object is a global object that represents the current HTML document. The document object has a number of properties and methods that can be used to access and manipulate the DOM.

For example, the document object has a getElementById() method that can be used to get an object representing an HTML element with a specified ID. The document object also has a getElementsByTagName() method that can be used to get an array of objects representing all HTML elements with a specified tag name.

The DOM is a powerful tool that can be used to create interactive web pages. By using the DOM, JavaScript can be used to add, remove, and modify HTML elements, as well as change the style and content of those elements.

Here are some examples of how the DOM can be used in JavaScript:

* To add a new HTML element to a page, you can use the document.createElement() method.
* To remove an HTML element from a page, you can use the document.removeChild() method.
* To change the style of an HTML element, you can use the style property of the element object.
* To change the content of an HTML element, you can use the textContent property of the element object.

