## Explain the 7 layers of the OSI Model in Computer Networking.

OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) is a reference model for how applications communicate over a network. This model focuses on providing a visual design of how each communications 
layer is built on top of the other, starting with the physical cabling, all the way to the application that's trying to communicate with other devices on a network.

###  The 7 layers of the OSI Model are:

#### **Layer 7. The application layer
The application layer enables the user -- human or software -- to interact with the application or network whenever the user elects to read messages,
transfer files or perform other network-related tasks. Web browsers and other internet-connected apps, such as Outlook and Skype, use Layer 7 application protocols.

#### **Layer 6. The presentation layer
The presentation layer translates or formats data for the application layer based on the semantics or syntax the application accepts. 
This layer also handles the encryption and decryption that the application layer requires.

#### **Layer 5. The session layer
The session layer sets up, coordinates and terminates conversations between applications. Its services include authentication and reconnection after an interruption.
This layer determines how long a system will wait for another application to respond. Examples of session layer protocols include X.225 and Zone Information Protocol (ZIP).

#### **Layer 4. The transport layer
The transport layer is responsible for transferring data across a network and provides error-checking mechanisms and data flow controls. It determines how much data to send, where it gets sent and at what rate.
TCP within the TCP/IP suite is the best-known example of the transport layer. This is where the communications select TCP port numbers to categorize and organize data transmissions across a network.

#### **Layer 3. The network layer
The primary function of the network layer is to move data into and through other networks. Network layer protocols accomplish this by packaging data with correct network address information, selecting the
appropriate network routes and forwarding the packaged data up the stack to the transport layer. From a TCP/IP perspective, this is where IP addresses are applied for routing purposes.

#### **Layer 2. The data link layer
The data-link, or protocol layer, in a program handles moving data into and out of a physical link in a network. This layer handles problems that occur as a result of bit transmission errors. It ensures that
the pace of the data flow doesn't overwhelm the sending and receiving devices. This layer also permits the transmission of data to Layer 3, the network layer, where it's addressed and routed.
The data-link layer can be further divided into two sublayers. The higher layer, which is called logical link control (LLC), is responsible for multiplexing, flow control, acknowledgement and
notifying upper layers if transmit/receive (TX/RX) errors occur.
The media access control sublayer is responsible for tracking data frames using MAC addresses of the sending and receiving hardware. It's also responsible for organizing each frame, marking the 
starting and ending bits and organizing timing regarding when each frame can be sent along the physical layer medium.

#### **Layer 1. The data link layer
The physical layer transports data using electrical, mechanical or procedural interfaces. This layer is responsible for sending computer bits from one device to another along the network. It determines 
how physical connections to the network are set up and how bits are represented into predictable signals as they're transmitted either electrically, optically or via radio waves
